In a growing world, with an ever-increasing population, more demand is added to transportation, energy and the other leaders in GHG emissions. The importance of reducing the GHG released is important. "Buildings are the single largest energy consumer in Europe". <sup>[1]</sup> Poorly insulated buildings are inefficient, taking more energy to keep the temperature stable, be it hot or cold. Much of this energy is lost due to the poor insulation, which leads to both higher energy consumption and costs, leading to even more GHG being released. Thus, having more energy efficient buildings, both residential and commercial, can help save on energy, and money in the longrun. The Arctic Winter of 1995/96 demonstrated that if the buildings were better insulated, it could have significantly lowered the energy costs during extreme cold periods, thus leading to less GHG emission.

EU through the "Energy Performance of Buildings Directive" aims for a fully decarbonised building stock by 2050. <sup>[1]</sup>
The directive sets a minimum energy performance requirement on all buildings, while promoting renovation of existing buildings. The directive mandates that all **new** buildings should be *near* zero-energy by 2030, and the public buildings by 2028. It also enables both consumers and businesses on how to make informed choices to save energy **and** money. While increasing the insulation of the houses, and starting a gradual phase-out of boilers that are powered by fossil fuels (such as propane), this directive aims to reduce ghg emissions, enhance energy efficiency and supporting the transition from the old way of constructing buildings, to a more sustainable way.

A secondary bonus of this is less money for the consumer to pay for heating their homes, or cooling them down. While supporting better air quality. The directive also enhances the targeted financing for investments in the building sector, to support vulnerable consumers.

**Below** is a graph which shows the the distribution of the average energy consumption (in kWh) across properties that vary in age, and what their Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) rating is. EPC ratings are the standard way to evaluate how energy efficient a building is, based on its insulation levle, heating systems and energy-saving measures. <sup>[2]</sup> It only takes the average, to show the general difference between the EPC ratings, as it's not taking into account all the details, such as how large the house is, what sort of home it is and such.


*Note*: Newer buildings in the UK tends to use more electricity than older buildings, as the older buildings rely on larger living spaces, with modern heating by electricity rather than natural gas. While also, older buildings often used thick stone as building material, which provides better insulation which holds in heat better in winter. <sup>[3]</sup>


[1]: https://energy.ec.europa.eu/topics/energy-efficiency/energy-efficient-buildings/energy-performance-buildings-directive_en
[2]: https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/housing/articles/ageofthepropertyisthebiggestsinglefactorinenergyefficiencyofhomes/2021-11-01
[3]: https://climatechangeconnection.org/solutions/home-construction/energy-efficiency/thermal-mass/